18c new features:

1- Sharding 
Oracle Database Sharding, released in Oracle Database 12c Release 2, provides OLTP scalability and fault isolation for users that want to scale outside
 of the usual confines of a typical SMP server. It also supports use cases where data needs to be placed in geographic location because of performance or regulatory reasons.
Oracle Sharding provides superior run-time performance and simpler life-cycle management compared to home-grown deployments that use a similar approach to scalability

2-Multitenant:
support the use of backups performed on a PDB prior to it being unplugged and plugged into a new container.
Snapshot Carousel  : define regular snapshots of PDBs. You can then use these snapshots as a source for PDB clones from various points of time, rather than simply the most current one. 
Refreshable PDB Switchover”: create a PDB which is an incrementally updated copy of a “master” PDB. Users may then perform a planned switchover between the PDBs inside of the container. 
this feature is not using Data Guard; 
You can now automatically maintain standby databases when you clone a PDB on the primary. This operation will ensure that the PDB including all of its data files are created on the standby database. 
* it is also possible to clone a PDB from a Active Data Guard Standby.
3- Security:
 schema only accounts:allows schemas to act as the owners of objects but not allow clients to log in potentially reducing the attack surface of the database.
 adds ability for each PDB to have its own key store rather than having one for the entire container.
 simplifies the configuration of non-container databases thanks to explicit parameters and hence removing the requirement to edit sqlnet.ora 
 integration of active directory.
 4- Data warehouse :
 to laoding mode  1- non logged data (fast load )   2- commited data ensures all standbys have the data when the primary load commits but at the cost of throttling the speed of loading data at the primary
 5-Polymorphic table functions
 stores complex aggregation or dynamic calculation,data transformations from function that returns data as if it was in a physical table. 
 these functions in ETL operations can be pipelined and run in parallel.
 
 6- ability to merge partitions  and maintain the indexes as well online (added to 12c features: move table online, split partition online, convert table to partition online etc.)
 7- aggregation function :
 APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT ,APPROX_COUNT(), APPROX_SUM() and APPROX_RANK().
 7- Development:
 Private Temporary Tables. These allow uses to define the shape of the table that is only visible for a given session or even just a transaction. more flexibility (like microsoft tempatbles).
 
 
 8- CMAN 
  CMAN allows you to use it as a connection concentrator enabling you to funnel thousands of sessions into a single Oracle Database. With the new mode introduced in Oracle Database 18c, it’s able to do a lot more. It can now automatically route connections to surviving database resources in the advent of some outage.